Brain Tumor Segmentation
forthebadge forthebadge forthebadge forthebadge
License: MIT Maintenance GitHub issues



This project uses U-Net Architecture to create segmentation masks for brain tumor images.

Overview
Dataset Used
Data Augmentation
Model Architecture
Training Process
Dataset Used
Dataset used:- https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/pkdarabi/brain-tumor-image-dataset-semantic-segmentation

Original Image	Mask Image
	
Data Augmentation
The basic forms of data augmentation are used here to diversify the training data. All the augmentation methods are used from Pytorch's Torchvision module.

Horizontally Flip
Vertically Flip
Rotation Between 75째-15째
Code Responsible for augmentation
Augmentation Code
Each augmentation method has a probability of 0.5 and the order of application is also random. For Rotation Augmentation the degree of rotation is chosen randomly between 75째-15째.

Model Architecture
The model architecture is depicted in this picture. Model Architecture

Training Process
The model was trained on a Nvidia GTX 1050Ti 4GB GPU. Total time taken for model training was 6 hours and 45 minutes. We started with an initial learning rate of 1e-3 and reduced it by 85% on plateauing, final learning rate at the end of 100 epochs was 2.7249e-4.
Some graphs indicating Learning Rate & Loss Value over 100 epochs are given below.

LR Graph Learning Rate Graph in Tensorboard.

Loss Graph Loss Graph Plotted in Matplotlib
Loss Graph Loss Graph Plotted in Tensorboard


To see the complete output produced during the training process check this

Installation
This project uses python3.

Clone the project.

git clone https://github.com/Jeetu95/Brain-Tumor-Segmentation.git
Install Pytorch from this link
Use pip to install all the dependencies

pip install -r requirements.txt
To open the notebook

jupyter lab
To see logs in Tensorboard

tensorboard --logdir logs --samples_per_plugin images=100
To setup the project dataset

python setup_scripts/download_dataset.py
python setup_scripts/unzip_dataset.py
python setup_scripts/extract_images.py
Usage
python api.py --file <file_name> --ofp <optional_output_file_path>
python api.py --folder <folder_name> --odp <optional_output_folder_path>
python api.py -h
Available api.py Flags
--file  : A single image file name.
--ofp   : An optional folder location only where the output image will be stored. Used only with --file tag.

--folder: Path of a folder containing many image files.
--odp   : An optional folder location only where the output images will be stored. Used only with --folder tag.

-h, --help : Shows the help contents.
Some results generated by API are here

Results
The mean Dice Score our model gained was 0.74461 in testing dataset of 600 images.
From this we can conclude that in our testing dataset our constructed mask has a similarity of about 74% with the original mask.
Some samples from our training dataset output are below. The top best results are here.To see all the results click on this Google Drive link

.	.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
